https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-install-xrdp-on-centos-8/

Installing Xrdp
Xrdp is available in the EPEL software repository. If EPEL is not enabled on your system, enable it by typing:

sudo dnf install epel-release
Install the Xrdp package:

sudo dnf install xrdp 
When the installation process is complete, start the Xrdp service and enable it at boot:

sudo systemctl enable xrdp --now
You can verify that Xrdp is running by typing:

sudo systemctl status xrdp
The output will look something like this:

● xrdp.service - xrdp daemon
   Loaded: loaded (/usr/lib/systemd/system/xrdp.service; enabled; vendor preset: disabled)
   Active: active (running) since Sun 2020-02-02 18:30:43 UTC; 11s ago
  ...
Configuring Xrdp
The configuration files are located in the /etc/xrdp directory. For basic Xrdp connections, you do not need to make any changes to the configuration files. Xrdp uses the default X Window desktop, which in this case, is Gnome.
The main configuration file is named xrdp.ini. This file is divided into sections and allows you to set global configuration settings such as security and listening addresses and create different xrdp login sessions.

Whenever you make any changes to the configuration file you need to restart the Xrdp service:

sudo systemctl restart xrdp
Xrdp uses startwm.sh file to launch the X session. If you want to use another X Window desktop, edit this file.

Configuring Firewall
By default, Xrdp listens on port 3389 on all interfaces. If you run a firewall on your CentOS machine (which you should always do), you’ll need to add a rule to allow traffic on the Xrdp port.

Typically you would want to allow access to the Xrdp server only from a specific IP address or IP range. For example, to allow connections only from the 192.168.1.0/24 range, enter the following command:

sudo firewall-cmd --new-zone=xrdp --permanent
sudo firewall-cmd --zone=xrdp --add-port=3389/tcp --permanent
sudo firewall-cmd --zone=xrdp --add-source=192.168.1.0/24 --permanent
sudo firewall-cmd --reload
To allow traffic to port 3389 from anywhere use the commands below. Allowing access from anywhere is highly discouraged for security reasons.

sudo firewall-cmd --add-port=3389/tcp --permanent
sudo firewall-cmd --reload
For increased security, you may consider setting up Xrdp to listen only on localhost and creating an SSH tunnel that securely forwards traffic from your local machine on port 3389 to the server on the same port.

Another secure option is to install OpenVPN and connect to the Xrdp server trough the private network.

Connecting to the Xrdp Server
Now that the Xrdp server is configured, it is time to open your local Xrdp client and connect to the remote CentOS 8 system.

Windows users can use the default RDP client. Type “remote” in the Windows search bar and click on “Remote Desktop Connection”. This will open up the RDP client. In the “Computer” field, type the remote server IP address and click “Connect”.

On the login screen, enter your username and password and click “OK”.
Once logged in, you should see the default Gnome desktop. It should look something like this:
You can now start interacting with the remote desktop from your local machine using your keyboard and mouse.
